---
layout: post
title: Rogue One
date: 1970-01-17 19:40:55.000000000 -08:00
---
*Potential spoilers below. Seriously, if you like Star Wars at all, you will really be doing yourself a favor if you just watch the film in theaters. It's really good and I don't want to spoil it for you.*

Bout to nerd out

Yesterday, I was fortunate enough to see *Rogue One: A Star Wars Story* and I finally feel complete for a number of reasons.

1. **It's finally a true Star Wars film.** *The Force Awakens*, in my unpopular opinion, is a mere rehash of the original, and the prequels, as good as they were when I saw them as a kid, is a romance and very jedi-focused. *Rogue One*, on the other hand, better captures the nature of the rebel-empire war, and focuses on how the war shaped each of the character's lives over the course of the film. That's not to say *The Force Awakens* didn't do the same thing, but watching *Rogue One* just felt so goddamn fresh. I felt like I was actually watching one of the original Star Wars films.
2. **Asian Representation.** Donnie Yen and Jiang Wen play a force-sensitive monk and a gatling gun guerrilla warrior respectively, and honestly, I was a little worried at first when I saw them being cast because I thought they were just going to have side roles in the whole story, but WOW, I was amazingly mistaken. I actually cried a little bit when they came up on the screen for the first time, because it was the first time I saw Chinese people play important parts in a franchise I keep really close to my heart. The little kid in me jumped, and I'm thinking about the actual little kids looking up to these two and thinking, "Damn, these guys are my new heroes." I've never really understood why it was important to have diversity in major Hollywood roles until I saw my homies Donnie and Jiang kick some stormtrooper ass on the big screen. 
3. **Fan Service.** As someone who's seen all of the movies from start to finish, it was really great seeing shit like AT-AT's and X-Wings duke it out in the modern day. That, and that fucking **Darth Vader scene at the end though**! I'm really glad they showed that because it really reinforces how powerful Vader is. I mean, he was a menacing figure in all of the movies, but I don't think there was truly a better scene where he just kicked a bunch of people's ass at once.

I heavily disagree with all film critic's opinions on how it was "too boring". No, *The Phantom Menace* was boring. The parts where Anakin and Padame literally roll down a hill and sit next to each other by the fire in some weird Shakespearean love story in *Attack of the Clones* was boring.

This movie, my dear critics, is what true Star Wars films have been waiting for since *The Empire Strikes Back*. And it's safe to say that after this film, I'm definitely excited for Disney to keep doing their thang for Star Wars. It's working 😄
