---
layout: post
title: La La Land
---
**Potential Spoilers Below**

This is my second movie review in a row (which is weird for me) but I feel like I've been obsessed with La La Land ever since I saw it in the theaters. So in an effort to just clean my mind of it, I'm typing up what I really think of it now.

To say I love this movie is a gross understatement. I was skeptical at first. I've grown cynical of the Glee generation, I never liked stuff like High School Musical, I've grown tired of watching dated musicals like The Sound of Music, and I was honestly expecting La La Land to be somewhere in between all of this. 

But I was wrong. It was, put briefly, a mash of old and new, surrealism and reality, and melancholy and happiness. It toyed with my emotions and made me root for the main characters like how I rooted for Tom in 500 Days of Summer. It made good commentary on the skewed direction of the music industry, which I agree is always heading in a direction that forgets the soul of the art. 

But most importantly, it reflects the true nature of millenial love: that our ambitions are more romantic than romance, but while our careers involve deep commitment nothing brings more happiness than being with that one person who makes you forget about everything else.

The way the director, Damien Chazelle, crafts such a takeaway is by expertly weaving together a story that shows the dawn and dusk of an epic romance, the one that belongs to Mia and Sebastian, who are artists in a perfectly encapsulated modern-day Los Angeles. (Going of topic a little, the way Chazelle captures the essence of LA was simply amazing. Having spent much time there myself throughout college, it was almost unbelievable how much nostalgia I felt just watching Mia and Seb walk along places I've actually been to.)

I think the way the romance is presented is the best I've ever seen in cinema. The movie has a somewhat surreal tone in the beginning, from every actor wearing coordinated colors (especially during the big numbers) to Mia and Seb dancing through the stars and planets while floating through the observatory, never touching the ground once during their dance. Although obviously such a thing could not happen in real life, the movie make you believe that everything you're seeing actually happened with Mia and Seb.

The surreal nature of this movie fades as the time goes on. Mia starts wearing less colors and more things one would expect out of a more mature person. Even the way the scenes are shot is more realistic. The cameraman, in an effort to make a good analogy, starts holding the camera like you would expect someone in The Office would hold the camera. This transition from dancing through the stars to an argument on the dinner table, from bright dresses at a party to generic stage outfits in a one-woman show, all but shows the maturity that both Mia and Seb go through in their relationship, as they quickly realize that they can't have both each other and their dreams at the same time.

Even at this point, the movie is good, but it's the last 20 minutes of what happens that makes this movie great. There is a moment went Mia gets the chance to audition for a role of a lifetime and when she starts, the realism fades. She sings, and there is a spotlight on her, as if this is her one moment that she gets in front of an audience that matters, uninterrupted and completely unfazed. Right after this, there is another sequence at the end where Mia and Seb imagine what life would've been like for them if everything went right, and it suddenly plunges you back into the total surrealism from the first half of the film. Mia and Seb are dancing in a play modeled after their life. Mia and Seb are kissing in silhouettes. Mia and Seb sit down and look at a movie, showing you their life with kids.

And just like that, all of it is taken away from you. You're plunged back into what actually happened in real life, and you're left feeling almost as heartbroken as they are.

It sounds ridiculous, but that's what I love so much about this movie. I think it accurately reflects a modern relationship in a way most movies can't. Most of us these days are driven by our ambition to do great things, but sometimes doing great things means you have to leave the people you care about behind... or lowering yourself to mediocrity. There are very few people who can do both, and even if it looks like they can do it, there's always problems underneath the surface.

But everyone in a relationship, when it's working or when it's failing, loves to remember the good, dreamy, and surreal parts of a relationship, when everything feels like it's going to be ok despite the shit that goes on in everyday life. It's not fun to see Mia and Seb get ripped apart, but then again, we've all been through more or less the same thing at one point in our lives. 

And that's what's so true: despite the magicalness of love, you just can't escape being hurt sometimes. But despite this vulnerability, being in love is worth every second of every minute of every hour, because there's just nothing else like it, and even if it doesn't work out a little bit of love will always be looked back on fondly... eventually at least.

La La Land is one of my most favorite movies of the year, if not ever. I didn't mention the soundtrack because I honestly think that shit speaks for itself. I've been listening to it nonstop the past week because it's that good. I might just watch it again if I have time 💃
